
1. 

 DO try to talk as much as you can.
 DO try to explain what you mean even if you can't remember exact words.
 DO develop your answers.
 DO try to use a variety of vocabulary and grammar.
 DO ask to repeat a question if necessary.
 DO stay on topic.
 DO relax and enjoy using your own English. 

----------------------------------------------------------------
 
2. Where are you from?
I am from Ukraine, from Kiev. Have been living here since I was 14 years old. 

---------------------------------------------------------------

3. What do you like most about your job?

Hard:

complicated, difficult, challenging, puzzling, complex, 
tricky, sophisticated, tough, 
problematic, cumbersome, tedious

Easy:

not diffecult, elementary, straightforward, simple, plain 


My job is programming, creating business applications that are useful for people, 
They make their live much easier. So, I like when my applications help business to develop 
makes business more successful, allows to expand new areas in the market and overcome competitors. 
Also, I like learning new approaches and cutting-edge tecknologies. 
Being a developer is not boring in comparison to other proffessions, because there is always 
something that you should learn and take more responsibility on. 
If you have grown up software development level, you always can attends leassons how 
to become an architect or a manager. 
 Bullet points: 
   - programs make people live much easier. 
   - programs helps business develop and be successful. 
   - progamming means constant learning something new. 
   - allows to communicate with people and be part of strong teams 
   - works places are geographically independent
   - opportunity to solve complex algorithmic problems 

-------------------------------------------------------
4. What new skill would you like to learn?
-------------------------------------------------------

Since I have been working as technical software developer for more than 10 years, 
my responsibilities have always been just to write clean code that meets business  
requirements and works successfully in production. 

Recently, I have understood that now I am in the position of loosing motivation a bit, 
because the work that I am doing now, does not require putting a lot of mental and phycical energy, 
because I am just repeating the same steps over and over again. 

I have understood that in order to take more responsibility 
and acquire more senior and influential role in the company, I need to lean new skills. 

Since I know that my hard skills are pretty good, I would like to improve soft skills. 
First skill that I would like to boost my experience in is technical leadership and people skills.
In order to be a good leader I need to learn how to efficiently interact and communicate with people. 

Since, leaders are the most experienced guys in the teams,
one of the most important activity for them is to train, develop and mentor other less experienced team members, 

So, I am going to attend Grow to Lead training where experince guys share their knowledge 
Then, I would like to participate technical mentorship programs and become a mentor. 

Apart from that what can be very useful for the future role is learing solution arckitecture. 
It is need to have a high level vision of what project does 
and what business goals and objectives our solution should fulfil. 

Topic A
 Talk about something you don’t like doing at work.
 
 You should say:
   what it is
   why you don’t like it
   how you deal with it 
   
 What it is: 
   I do not like participating in abundance of meetings through the day. 
   The most comfortable duration of meetings through the day is not longer than 2 hours. 
   Recently I have conducted a lot of knowledge transfer sessions for our India colleagues, 
   and there were days when I was explaining things to them for more than half of the day.
 
 Why you don’t like it: 
   I understand that they are important, we need to discuss things before doing, 
   however somethings meetings can be inefficient and lats longer than needed. 
   Sometimes, people, who I communicate with or whom I teach asks a lot of questions 
   and need to explains same things over and over again. 
 
 How you deal with it: 
   First of all, I try to understand what meetings are important and what are not.
   Before critical meetings I try to prepare ahead, build a plan and 
   topics that I need to discuss. If the next day we are going to discuss business 
   requirements, then I go through agenda, read business stories description and 
   prepare questions with answers. Also, I apply techiques how to lead effective meetings: 
     - Define the Meeting Objectives
	     I need to stress out what is the purpose of this meeting, either it is 
	     to do planning for the next week, or to solve a problem or to make a decision 
	 - Meeting Length
	     Plan meeting structure and time spent on each topic
		   1. Introduction
		   2. Review previous meeting notes 
		   3. Present objective or problem at hand 
		   4. Open brainstorming and group discussion 
		   5. Collect the results and close the meeting
		   6. Send meeting notes. 
		   
-------------------------------------------------------
5. Act out a dialogue with the examiner. 
   You will have a minute to read the instruction
-------------------------------------------------------
  
  - find out the capacity of the largest conference room
  - ask about the equipment available
  - find out the cost of that room per day
  - negotiate the price

- Good afternoon. I am Ruslan from Epam and 
  I am looking for booking a conference room int your hotel for tomorrow. 
  Can you, please, help me with that? 

- Let me give you more details. We expect up to 100 people to come to the conference. 
  What is the max number of peope that can be in your conference room? 
  How many people the largest available conference room can fit? 
  Apart from that we need this room to be equipped with chairs, 
  because the conference will last the whole day, and people will be tired to stand 
  
- Having one more question about the other equipment. 
  Since, there going be presentations on the conference, we also need white-board and 
  a meeting room projector or as an aternative, a big monitor pluggable to a laptop 
  Will the room be equipped with all this? 
   
- Ok. Your room looks good to me. 
  Please, tell me what will be price per day to use this room? 
  Is payment for an additonal equipment included in you final price? 
  
- I'm sorry, but we are on tight budget amd I am afraid, we won't be able to afford the price. 
  Is it possible to lower a price a bit for us, since we are regular customers? 
  Can you offer some discount if we book this room for another conference which will occur in one month? 
  If we pay in cash, will you lower the price a bit? 
  
- Thank you a lot. That's a good price for us. My manager will love it. 
  We have made a deal. 

- Thank you for your help. It's been preasure working with you.
  See you tomorrow on the conference. 
  Have a nice day. 

-------------------------------------------------------
6. Tell me about Epam? 
-------------------------------------------------------  
  Epam history started in 1993. There were nly 3 developers one client and a small office
  Since that time Epam has grown tremendously, has created solutions for a lot of big clients.
  Epam started in one county and since then has expanded geographically and opened offices 
  in many countries accross the globe. 
  
  From the very beginning Epam's service included only providing develper who wrote code for the clients. 
  Epam was only a mediator between a client and progammers, clients asked for developers with exspertize in 
  the set of technologies that clients needed. 
  After that Epams started to be in charge of the whole digital stransformations for clients and 
  also, do business consulting and design products from scratch 
  
  In 2004 Epam merged with Fathom technology which specialized in advanced Java and .NET technologies services 
  By that time Epam's had count had grown up from 3 to 1000 people
  
  On Febulary 8 Epam become public on New York Stock Exchange
  By that time Epam's had count had increased from 1000 to 10000 employees. 
  
  For the period from 2013 to 2015 Epam had increased head count twice. 
  Started to participate in programs that provide customers with more value added services. 
  
  Mission after 2018 is to transform platforms for adaptive enterprises. 
  In the period from 2018 to 2021 Epam had again doupled headcount 


Senior .NET Software Engineer with 10+ years of overall experience in designing and developing distributed enterprise systems within financial business domain using wide range of technologies starting from ASP Web Forms to AWS Cloud

  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	

	
   
   
     
   
  








      





   
   
   


