
 1. Nonclustered Indexes

When you need to find a term in the book, you can look it up in the index. 
It is a fast and efficient operation, because terms are sorted in alphabetical order. 
Next, you can quickly find the pages on which the terms 
are mentioned using the page numbers specified there. 

The leaf level of the nonclustered index is sorted based on the value of the index key— Name in our case.
Every row on the leaf level includes the key value and row-id. 
For heap tables, 
  row-id is the physical location of the row, 
  defined as file:page:slot, 
  and has the size of eight bytes.
  
Another reason why SQL Server uses forwarding pointers in heap tables 
is to prevent the updating of nonclustered index rows when the original row 
in the heap table has been moved to another data page after the update. 
Nonclustered indexes keep the old row-id, 
which references the forwarding pointer row. 

For tables with a clustered index, row-id represents the value of the clustered index key of the row.
It is important to define a nonclustered index as unique when the data is unique.

Nonclustered indexes defined on heap tables reference the actual location of the rows in the data file. 
SQL Server uses the RID lookup operation to obtain the data row from the heap. 
In theory, RID lookup seems to be more efficient than key lookup, 
because it can read the row directly without traversing the root 
and intermediate levels of the clustered inde

Statistics
SQL Server statistics are system objects that contain information 
about data distribution in the index key values and, sometimes, in regular column values.

When necessary, consistency between databases from different microservices 
is achieved using application-level events (through a logical event bus), 
as handled in Command and Query Responsibility Segregation (CQRS). 
Because of that, the business constraints 
must embrace eventual consistency between the multiple microservices and related databases.

Communication architecture
  1. Direct client-to-microservice communication. 
     This is used for queries and when accepting 
     update or transactional commands from the client apps. 
  2. Asynchronous event-based communication. 
     This occurs through an event bus to propagate updates 
	 across microservices or to integrate with external applications. 
	 
However, if you are going to design a large microservice-based application 
with dozens of microservices, we strongly recommend that you consider the API Gateway pattern, 
as we explained in the architecture section.









 
 






 