
1. IssueNet 

  A unique network of member banks linked by web-based
  technology that synchronizes deal and orderbook information
  between syndicate desks

  IssueNet enables the rapid exchange of orders and allocations between banks
  during the bookbuild phase of the new issue process. 
  This exchange of information ensures that all banks participating on a deal 
  see a consolidated and up to date version of the orderbook 
  and an accurate level of demand at all times. 
  
  It is supported by a market-wide investor mapping service which allows IssueNet
  to automatically reconcile the orderbook, 
  speeding up deal execution while simultaneously reducing the risk of errors.
  
  Banks can seamlessly connect to IssueNet using our IssueBook bookbuild platform.
  The significant increase in deal volumes in recent years, 
  along with bigger orderbook sizes and larger syndicate groups, 
  has increased the pressure on syndicate desks 
  that still need to launch and price deals same day.
  
  IssueNet brings major efficiencies to the new issuance process, 
  enabling the syndicate to manage and reconcile an orderbook in much shorter time frames 
  and allowing them to price deals sooner than previously possible. 
  
  In addition, errors are greatly reduced due to IssueNet’s automated order 
  matching capabilities.
  
  Automated reconciliation IssueNet’s investor mapping service identifies 
  and deals with duplicate orders in real time.
  
  Manage and reduce errors
  Orderbook discrepancies are flagged so that syndicate can address appropriately.
  Shortened reconciliation process 
  Automated reconciliation means less time spent on manual reconciliation,
  allowing deals to be priced sooner
  
  ----------------------
  
  A unique web based issuance platform with technology enhancement
  that links a network of member banks that synchronizes deal 
  and orderbook information between syndicate desk.

  IssueNet enables the rapid exchange of orders and allocations 
  between banks during the bookbuild phase of the new issue process.

  This exchange of information ensures that all banks involved 
  in a transaction have access to a centralised 
  and up-to-date version of the orderbook 
  as well as an accurate level of demand at all times. 
  It is backed by a market-wide investor mapping service 
  that helps IssueNet to reconcile the orderbook automatically, 
  speeding up deal execution while lowering the risk of errors.

  Banks can seamlessly connect to IssueNet using our IssueBook bookbuild platform.
  The significant increase in deal volumes in recent years, 
  along with bigger orderbook sizes and larger syndicate groups 
  has put additional pressure on syndicate desks 
  that must still launch and price deals the same day.
  
2. IssueLaunch

  The IssueLaunch platform consolidates real-time communication of deal terms
  between banks and all involved parties in an organized and compliant format.
  Our deal management system is a business communication tool 
  that allows banks and all parties involved to work together 
  in real-time to set up deals. 
  IssueLaunch ensures deal terms are communicated to sales, 
  other banks and investors in an organized and compliant format.  
  
  IssueLaunch is a business communication tool that consolidates 
  real-time communication of deal terms between 
  all involved parties in an organized and compliant format.

  It integrates seamlessly with IssueNet and IssueBook to deliver 
  a full suite of syndication services. 
  Below are some of the functions and communication tools available in IssueLaunch:

    - Create deals and craft deal terms for distribution 
	  to the buy-side with deal management and online collaboration tools
	  
    - Send messages at all stages of the transaction, z
	  from mandate announcement to free-to-trade
	  
    - Distribute to the buy-side in accordance with the KYC process and protocols, 
	  as well as the terms of the offering and relevant regulations
	  
    - Enable deals through our electronic ordering system 
	  and allow buy-side to place orders directly 
	  with sales to syndicate and receive allocations
	  
    - Maintain a permanent record of deal terms in a secured document repository
    - Keep a full audit trail of all created and distributed deal terms
    - Integration with CUSIP Bureau for automated receipt of security identifiers
    - Access full suite of syndication services 
	  via seamless connectivity with IssueNet and IssueBook
    - Create Business Deals

  Streamline IssueNet deal creation
     Set up deal terms once and sync them to IssueNet and IssueBook
     Dynamically generate buy-side distribution list based 
	 on offering format and selling restrictions.
     Terms can be sent to the buy-side DealMonitor or taken 
	 as a direct feed into buy-side systems
	 
  Communication
     Engage in syndicate-to-syndicate collaboration on deal terms in real time
     Securely publish terms and conditions to internal 
	 and external DealMonitor users
     Enable deals for InvestorAccess with one click

3. IssueBook

  From origination through marketing to bookbuild, allocation, and settlement: 
  IssueBook streamlines and centralizes the fixed income new issue process.

  Primary order management can be complex, especially on multitranche global executions. 
  Bank salespersons and investors are directly entering orders at a rapid pace. 

  Strict intraday deadlines increase the pressure to aggregate orders and accurately distribute allocations. 
  From order taking to trade booking and final settlement of fees, 
  these sensitive workflows must all meet the highest of regulatory and compliance standards.

  IssueBook is an all-in-one solution that allows banks to simplify workflows, 
  manage multiple and concurrent deals, 
  and connect all permissioned internal participants in the new issue process. 

  The platform enables users to specify deal terms, 
  communicate these terms to other participating banks, 
  bookbuild and allocate order books, automatically book trades, and finally settle transactions. 

  IssueBook can execute multiple deals concurrently, manage duplicate orders, 
  grant fine-grained user permissions, export order data, and perform order book analysis. 

  It is also seamlessly integrated with IssueNet and IssueLaunch, 
  allowing for broader communication and cooperation between the entire syndicate, the issuer, and investors globally.

  Bookbuilding
  
  With an user-friendly interface, users can enter multiple indications quickly, 
  upload and distribute documents, instantaneously communicate allocations, 
  as well as manage multitranche and multi-currency deals in real-time. 

  The flexible coverage model allows banks to grant users from multiple locations 
  and business lines permission to participate in deals.

  Order Aggregation
  
  IssueBook accepts orders from internal syndicate and sales team members as well 
  as from other deal participants and investors via integrations with IssueNet and InvestorAccess.

  Compliance
  
  IssueBook helps banks ensure compliance with key auditing regulations, including MiFID II and GDPR. 
  In addition, it acts as a central repository for reporting across regions/ investors/ products.

  Straight-through processing
  IssueBook efficiently processes trades, resulting in fewer broken trades and faster transaction settlement. 

  The platform can also generate trade records and other data needed 
  for downstream processing as well as allow for bulk updates to fields on multiple orders.
  
4. InvestorAccess

  Increase efficiency and reduce operational risk with our platform for all primary market workflows.
  
  InvestorAccess increases efficiency and reduces operational risk 
  for the buyside by providing direct access to hundreds of global banks in the primary market.

  InvestorAccess is the first solution to revolutionize the primary market 
  by electronically linking sellside and buyside workflows.

  Distribution of consolidated, standardized deal terms and the communication of orders 
  and allocations in real time are all benefits of the new automated primary workflow.

  InvestorAccess seamlessly connects to our cross-asset bookbuilding suite 
  and can also integrate with proprietary buyside platforms through our exclusive API connectivity.

  ---------- 
  
  A single solution to increase efficiency and reduce operational risk
  InvestorAccess helps efficiently manage compressed deal timelines and busy new issuance days. 
  Buyside participants are connected to an inter-dealer network for deal management 
  and order book synchronization, including access to hundreds of global banks 
  that use our systems to run syndicated deals. 
  InvestorAccess integrates all workflows related to deal terms distribution, 
  and communication of orders and allocations, 
  whereby both the buyside and all participants benefit throughout the method.

    - Deal information directly from the syndicate desk
	- Electronically enter orders on new issues
	- Create and manage orders in a centralized location
	- Eliminate the need to duplicate updates across multiple counterparts
	- Utilize laddered, limit, and multiple entity orders
	- View new issue allocations directly from syndicate banks
	- Consolidated messaging from all relationships
	
  Our end-to-end solution delivers next generation workflow tools for the buyside
  Our buyside solutions were developed in partnership with market participants 
  from both the buyside and sell side to add efficiency in how new issues are brought to market. 
  Our new issuance tools are used by syndicate banks and institutional investors 
  for the vast majority of new issuance across US equities, US municipals, and global fixed income.

  We offer an integrated set of modules to optimize the new issue process. 
  Each module may be used individually or in conjunction with other components, 
  depending on your firm’s objectives.
  
5. DealMonitor 

    Consumer deal data & allow order placement
    Supports Trader, PM, Analyst, Trade Ops, and Compliance

   Managing deal execution for the fixed income primary bond market.
   As the fixed income markets continue to develop from voice driven communications 
   and manual operational processes to more streamlined, interoperable platforms, 
   our fixed income solutions are driving the electronification and automation of the marketplace. 
   We are committed to providing the fixed income market with open 
   and interoperable solutions that increase efficiency and reduce operational risk, 
   allowing deals to execute faster than ever before.
   
   Delivering streamlined operations to our customers
   Our Sellside products facilitate the execution of primary market transactions 
   from origination to settlement workflows, 
   allowing efficient collaboration between Issuers, banks and investors. 
   Our products work seamlessly to provide market participants 
   with a real-time electronic exchange of information 
   between traders, investors and syndicate banks, covering the entire new issue life cycle. 
   And, our data offerings provide intelligence for successful engagement in the secondary markets.

   Our suite of solutions for the Buyside simplifies primary deal management with structured, 
   easily consumable data, efficient integration, and a comprehensive audit trail to help with regulatory needs. 
   Traditional market workflow is cumbersome and prone to error with multiple parties involved 
   and multiple deals running simultaneously, 
   the new issue process can often be complicated particularly 
   for buyside traders coordinating the volume of deals, orders, and communications.

   Our solution transforms your Fixed Income Issuance
     - Connectivity. 
	     Centralized global fixed income issuance network shared 
	     deal, order information in real time 
	 - Efficiency. 
	     Shared order book with reconciliation process allow banks to 
		 price delas quickly, efficiently and electronically in real-time
	 - Risk reduction.
	     Automated bookbuild process and easier reconcilliation process 
		 reduce errors and faster execution time
     - Transparency. 
	     Detailed audit trail helps banks to comply with regulatory depands.
     - Integration. 
	     Api connectivity. Open interoperability allows banks and investors 
		 to connect to other systems for investor data or trade processing systems. 
		 
6. Equity bookbuild 

A comprehensive web-based application, managing all facets of global equity deal execution
Successful deal execution is reliant upon many critical factors, including precise
order entry, strict regulatory adherence, unequivocal price discovery, fair allocation practices, and more. 

Through its dynamic design and enriched functionality,
Equity Bookbuild (EBB) fully accommodates all workflows while empowering
Equity Capital Markets professionals with advanced intelligence to yield the best outcome for their clients.
Our software elegantly delivers efficiency, precision, and speed of execution
through a compelling and differentiated model highlighted below.

Joint Bank Operability

— An extensive global network of
banks that rely on our industry
utility to communicate and share
vital deal information on a
real-time basis

— Unique reconciliation process to
identify and marry joint institutional
orders, a highly taxing and timeconsuming process for Capital
Markets professionals 

Data Integration

— Seamless integration with our
complete set of ancillary modules
(Events, Compliance, Prospectus,
Issuer Solutions) to analyze investor
activity and fulfillment alongside
orders/allocations

— Partners with industry virtual
roadshow providers to
integrate investor viewership
data into order books, bolstering
allocation practices 

Comprehensive Functionality

— Offers a plethora of functionality,
from origination through
post-settlement, while eliciting
straight-through-processing to
drive efficiency

— Pioneers the latest innovation
trends, such as our Wall Crossing
module to centrally manage all
confidentially marketed activities

Enriched Analytics

— Extensive amalgamation of
data sets (e.g. price thresholds,
drop-off levels, demand build-up,
hit ratios) to support thoughtful
allocations and healthy
aftermarket performance

— Robust historical library of
customizable reports,
harnessing deal intelligence
across all stakeholders 

7. Municipal Bookbuild

Elevated security features and disclosures for the municipal new issue platform
With advanced, thoroughly tested information security controls, our Municipal
Bookbuild platform is designed to protect our clients’ data and activity as they
manage deals and collaborate on new issues. However, some clients may have
additional security or compliance requirements. We offer a number of enhanced
options that can satisfy the most demanding security requirements and mitigate
evolving cyber threats.

Extension of multi-factor authentication
MFA on privileged activities conducted
by administrators

Patch reporting
Detailed reporting on patch
installations, semi-annual view of
critical patch history, and 72-hour patch
plan delivered for all emergencies.

Encryption at rest
Storage encryption using AES 256 with
a single, shared key, or using dedicated
key stored in an IHS Markit HSM;
field-level encryption of specific
data attributes.

Static code analysis
Annual scan of code using industrystandard 
vendor engines and thirdparty summary report of scan results.

 

  

	 

  
  
  


  


