
1. SCALE FROM ZERO TO MILLIONS OF USERS

 Non-relational databases might be the right choice if:
   • Your application requires super-low latency.
   • Your data are unstructured, or you do not have any relational data.
   • You only need to serialize and deserialize data (JSON, XML, YAML, etc.).
   • You need to store a massive amount of data
   
 Vertical scaling vs horizontal scaling
   - Vertical scaling does not have failover and redundancy. 
     If one server goes down, the website/app goes down with it completely.
	 
 Load balancer
   - A load balancer evenly distributes incoming traffic among web servers 
     that are defined in a load-balanced set.
	 
 Database replication
   Advantages of database replication:
    • Better performance: In the master-slave model, all writes and updates happen in master
         nodes; whereas, read operations are distributed across slave nodes. This model improves
         performance because it allows more queries to be processed in parallel.
    • Reliability: If one of your database servers is destroyed by a natural disaster, such as a
         typhoon or an earthquake, data is still preserved. You do not need to worry about data loss
         because data is replicated across multiple locations.
    • High availability: By replicating data across different locations, your website remains in
         operation even if a database is offline as you can access data stored in another database server.

 If the master database goes offline, a slave database will be promoted to be the new master. 
 All the database operations will be temporarily executed on the new master database.		 
 In production systems, promoting a new master is more complicated as the data in a slave
 database might not be up to date. 
 The missing data needs to be updated by running data recovery scripts
 
 Although some other replication methods like multi-masters and circular
 replication could help, those setups are more complicated; 
 and their discussions are beyond the scope of this book. 
 Interested readers should refer to the listed reference materials [4] [5].
 
 




 
 
		 

 
   

