
1. Amazon RDS Proxy is a fully managed, highly available database proxy for Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS) 
  that makes applications more scalable, more resilient to database failures, and more secure.
  
  Many applications, including those built on modern serverless architectures, 
  can have a large number of open connections to the database server 
  and may open and close database connections at a high rate, 
  exhausting database memory and compute resources. 
  Amazon RDS Proxy allows applications to pool and share connections established with the database, 
  improving database efficiency and application scalability. 
  With RDS Proxy, failover times for Aurora and RDS databases 
  are reduced by up to 66% and database credentials, authentication, 
  and access can be managed through integration with AWS Secrets Manager and AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM).

2. RDS Proxy benefits. 

  Improved application performance
    This connection pooling enables your database to efficiently support a large number and frequency 
	of application connections so that your application can scale without compromising performance.
	
  Increase application availability
    RDS Proxy minimizes application disruption from outages affecting the availability 
	of your database by automatically connecting to a new database instance while preserving application connections.  

  Manage application security
    Amazon RDS Proxy gives you additional control over data security by giving 
	you the choice to enforce IAM authentication for database access 
	and avoid hard coding database credentials into application code.

  Fully managed
    RDS Proxy is completely serverless and scales automatically to accommodate your workload.
	
  Fully compatible with your database
    Amazon RDS Proxy is fully compatible with the protocols of supported database engines, 
	so you can deploy RDS Proxy for your application without making changes to your application code.
	
  Available and durable
    Amazon RDS Proxy is highly available and deployed over multiple Availability Zones (AZs) 
	to protect you from infrastructure failure

3. Use cases: 

  Serverless application development:
    Modern serverless applications support highly variable workloads 
	and may attempt to open a burst of new database connections or keep many connections open but idle.
    A surge of connections or a large number of open connections could strain your database server, 
	leading to slower queries and limited application scalability. 
    By pooling and sharing already established database connections, 
	RDS Proxy allows you to efficiently scale to many more connections from your serverless application.
	Finally, RDS Proxy preserves the availability of your serverless application 
	by denying unserviceable application connections that may degrade the performance of your database.
   
  Applications that keep connections open but idle:
    Applications in industries such as SaaS or eCommerce may keep database connections 
	idling to minimize the response time when a customer reengages.  
    Instead of overprovisioning databases to support mostly idling connections, 
	customers can use RDS Proxy to hold idling connections 
	while only establishing database connections as required to optimally serve active requests.
	
  Applications requiring availability through transient failures:
    With RDS Proxy, customers can build applications that can transparently tolerate database failures 
	without needing to write complex failure handling code. 
	RDS Proxy automatically routes traffic to a new database instance while preserving application connections. 
	RDS Proxy also bypasses DNS (Domain Name System) caches to reduce failover times 
	by up to 66% for Amazon RDS and Aurora Multi-AZ databases.

4. How will serverless applications benefit from RDS Proxy?

  First, RDS Proxy enables serverless applications to scale efficiently by pooling and reusing database connections.
  Second, with RDS Proxy, you no longer need to handle database credentials in your Lambda code. 
  You can use the IAM execution role associated with your Lambda function 
  to authenticate with RDS Proxy and your database. 
  Third, you don’t need to manage any new infrastructure or code to utilize the full potential 
  of serverless applications backed by relational databases.
  RDS Proxy is fully managed and scales its capacity automatically based on your application demands.

5. How do I authenticate with RDS Proxy?

  RDS Proxy supports IAM-based authentication to offload credential management from applications. 
  Instead of specifying a username and password while establishing connections, 
  you can use an IAM execution role associated with your Lambda function or EC2 instance to authenticate with RDS Proxy. 
  RDS Proxy also allows you to enforce IAM authentication to help improve the security posture of your applications.   

  https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules/terraform-aws-rds-proxy/blob/master/examples/postgresql-iam-cluster/main.tf	
	
  resource "aws_db_proxy" "proxy"
  resource "aws_db_proxy_default_target_group" "proxy"  
  resource "aws_db_proxy_target" "db_cluster" 
  resource "aws_db_proxy_endpoint" "read_only"
  
6. What is RDS?

  
   
	

	
	 
	 
  
    
  